hey it's me Destin welcome back to
smarter every day so let's pretend for a
second that you're a macaw and you live
in the Amazon rainforest life is pretty
good you have all the fruit you want but
there's one problem you don't get all
the nutrients that you need out of that
fruit so how do you do that so to answer
that question today I have traveled over
four days most of that being an Amazon
rainforest with an outfit called
rainforest expeditions and this is our
final boat ride so we are going to get
in this boat and we're going to go
upriver here at the Tambopata River
jurcins going to go with us he's helping
me haul some photo gear you're getting
smarter every day
Justin you okay
so I'm going to boat full of researchers
here at the tambopata Research Center
and we are about to go check out exactly
how these McCall's handle the new trip
let's go to the main sport books okay
and then we'll see how how dignity goes
in the beginning again okay
so this guy right here is in charge he
has I said it worked at me since I've
been here he's in the zone he's got a
clipboard so you know he's legit talk
now or talk later
silly talk later got it
I told you he's busy doing science don't
mess with the man okay so that spot of
dirt right over there is the largest
clay lick in the world here at the
tambopata Research Center researchers
come from all over just to watch this
spot of dirt macaws parrots and other
birds come in and they eat the dirt and
that gives them the nutrients they need
so today we brought a high-speed camera
we're gonna try to capture the McCall's
doing this should be pretty cool
do one thing with the birds do that we
don't really understand yet it's called
flashing it's when a bunch of a pile up
on the clay lit and then all of a sudden
boom all of them release a little time
so hopefully I can get this high-speed
video to the researchers
you
cuantos Ave estamos ando la culpa aqui
tenemos lo sodariot dos las hoyas
en que se va la culpa clima y la spaces
okay so I'm home now but I can't stop
thinking about why I'm a call would eat
dirt
well between all my scratching of bug
bites I contacted the Shoebat Center for
exotic bird health at Texas A&M
University and spoke with a guy named
dr. Don bright Smith for the past few
decades the theory has been there's
toxins and fruit in the jungle and that
the birds are eating this clay to
neutralize the toxins the research by
dr. bright Smith suggested that has more
to do with sodium and how rain falls on
the continent of South America in
general so if you begin to look at South
America you can understand why this
happens on the west side we have the
Pacific Ocean on the east side we have
the Atlantic Ocean so it makes sense
that the evaporation would create rain
and create the Amazon rainforest but
that's not what happens if you look at a
satellite image it's easy to see but the
Andes Mountains actually cuts off the
moisture before it gets over to the
Amazon rainforest in fact most of the
stuff to the west of the Andes is pure
desert this means that most of the
moisture in the Amazon rainforest comes
from the Atlantic side of the continent
so as moisture evaporates here in the
Atlantic Ocean it begins to deposit its
minerals as it crosses the continent and
by the time it gets here to Eastern Peru
most of the minerals have leached into
the soil because it's gone through the
hydrological cycle several times
dr. Bryce Smith and his team analyzed
the clay that the McCall's are eating at
the tambopata Research Center and they
discovered that there's much higher
concentrations of sodium so there you go
that's why clay lakes exist so I hope
you enjoyed the video I had to spend
some time away from the family in order
to do it but if it was worth it for you
if you would please consider subscribing
and check out the links in the video
description below I'd appreciate it
getting smarter every day
have a good one don't eat my passport
you can't eat my passport
weren't you doing anything we and that's
how we got nice became her to the jungle
right there I don't have a lens I can
reach way over there so Jeff the
high-resolution photographer here at
rainforest expeditions good let me
borrow at 600 million UN's
dancer we're doing so I'm looking
forward to taking this sound and
pitching it down and turning them into
scary pair of monsters but then what do
you think we're recording wildlife for
wildlife that's it a day we improve it's
pretty awesome
we've assembled a team of people we're
gonna capture machu picchu in the
highest resolution photo that's ever
been native get that special panoramic
robotic camera mount get all kinds of
cool stuff